Welcome back.
So we've talked about the first three components the first three steps in this five step problem solving
approach understand the problem then go through some concrete examples.
Talk about edge cases inputs outputs that sort of thing.
Next break down your approach your solution into a couple of steps that you can follow.
It doesn't have to be in saying the details but it does help if you can come up with pretty thorough
steps.
And then sometimes if all of that went well and you feel good about it you can just self and you write
your code right away.
And I should note that's not the last step.
Even if you do solve it there's still a step after this but sometimes you're not ready to solve the
entire problem at this point.
You might feel good about 80 percent but then there's this one thing you're not sure how to do or there's
you know two things that are really challenging.
So that's where simplify comes and solve or simplify or solve slash simplify.
OK.
Designated slide.
So solve the problem if you can.
And if you can't solve a simpler problem now that doesn't mean changing the subject entirely in picking
you know let's solve one plus one.
That's stupid.
I know I said that what it really means is trying to ignore the part that is giving you a really hard
time in order to focus on everything else.
So why is it even worth doing this.
Well first of all in an interview setting often you want to have something to show for yourself.
So instead of getting stuck on one difficult part of a problem and making zero progress at all because
you're you know putting all of your eggs in one basket of being able to solve it 100 percent before
you even start writing code that often can look bad.
It's much better even if you know there's some part that you're going to get stuck on.
It's much better to just start writing code to do the stuff you know how to do all the while keeping
in mind that you do need to incorporate that harder part back in.
Secondly it's pretty common that in simplifying a problem you'll gain insight into the actual solution
into the harder part of the problem and something will click into place.
So I really really recommend that if you do get stuck on something but you know where to start.
Or you know a place to start.
You should just go for it once of course you've done the first three steps.
You understood the problem.
You've done concrete examples and you've broken it down into steps.
So as far as the simplification I like to think about it this way.
So you find the core difficulty in what you're trying to do.
The thing that is tripping you up that you're panicking about temporarily ignore that difficulty.
Write a simplified solution and then incorporate that difficulty back in if you can.
And along the way often at this step you'll you'll gain insight into how this part works.
So one more time let's return to this example.
Write a function which takes in a string and returns counts of each character in the string.
All right so char count remembers should return an object that contains all the account for every alphanumeric
character in an input string.
So ignoring every non letter or number in all the letters should be lower case.
So there's a couple of things that could present difficulties here.
To start off with the really simple obvious ones.
If someone has trouble with looping then this could be problematic.
And if you did have trouble with looping then I would if it were me and I struggled with looping.
I would start by creating an object and just working with the first character in that string or hard
coding in the first five characters probably.
You know I'm not going to get me a job but at least it's a start.
And then once you figure out you know how to handle it for one character the very first item in a string
like right here you lower case it or you add it to the object or you check if it's in the object.
Then you do it for the second character then the third character.
Then you find a pattern that you can turn into a loop.
Another thing that could be problematic is someone might not be comfortable working with keys and values
and objects.
Again a very simple problem and you're probably not going to be interviewing for a job.
If you have trouble doing that.
But if you are trying to solve a problem anyway maybe you're at home and you don't feel good about using
keys and values and manipulating objects.
You could start with a loop and loop over every character in the string and maybe just print out that
character or probably a more realistic thing is that you may not be comfortable working with uppercase
and lowercase strings or for an interview setting.
You might not remember sometimes you know you don't have access to a computer or phone or white board.
You might not remember the exact method that lower cases or upper cases a string in Javascript.
So I would just ignore that I would just start with the main logic and then you know put uppercase and
lowercase characters in there and just deal with it later and just say outloud like I can't remember
exactly how to do this so I'm just going to skip that part and then at the end you know I'll go back.
Or if I had my computer I would just quickly google how to lowercase something in Javascript in that
lower case everything at the beginning.
Something like that.
Now if I did actually face this interview which to be fair it's a pretty easy problem at least on the
surface.
The thing that would probably trip me up the most and trip up most students that I've worked with is
making sure characters alphanumeric making this object return at the end.
Simple enough we could just call it like frequency or count result.
Maybe it's an empty object loop over the string for each character.
So just do for var i equal zero is less than string length.
All right then this gives me each character and we can start off by just adding each character into
that object or checking if it's in that object.
So ignore the number letter part ignore alphanumeric ignore the casing even and just check if that exact
character is in the object.
So I would just use something like.
If result of this make a variable here to make this a little more legible.
So let's make a variable called Char equals string of I instead of having to put string of-I all over
the place.
So if result of char is greater than zero meaning it's already in there then I just copy this and do.
Plus plus else we're going to set result of Chaar equal to one because that means it's not in there
yet.
And this is basically where I would start assuming I don't have a typo.
So if we put my pseudo code that's here if a character haven't conquered this number let her problem
but we're at least getting 90 percent of the way there.
It's just my little bits of pseudo code here and we're not tackling this.
Return the object at the end.
So then return result and let's see if it works ok.
I ran my solution and if I run char count it's large enough char count of hello just make this a bit
larger.
It works you can see that we get 8 E 1 L 2 0 1.
If I instead do.
Hi there like this.
You can see we're also getting uppercase H are getting.
What else exclamation point or getting space so that's not ideal but we're really close.
So now you know if we have this done we could at least figure out the lowercase part or maybe our interviewer
gives us a hint or we have access to figure out how to do the lower case.
It's just a method to lowercase or we can uppercase everything but it's a matter of if we want to lower
case the entire string first.
Or we could do it you know one character at a time so we could come in here and just do two lower case
like that rerun our code
rerun our code and now if we look at Char count of high there it all works.
We have to h e is to case it doesn't matter.
Now we still have the non-alphanumeric characters but this gets us most of the way there.
And now we could do some additional research.
We could ask our interviewer if they had suggestions we could just start spit balling and how to do
that alphanumeric component so to telephone number or if a character is alphanumeric.
There's a couple of options we could define you know an array essentially containing every valid character
which should be really annoying.
So we could have an array that was massive.
It had ab cd upper case and lower case and one every alphanumeric character which I guess is not that
many but still it would be a long array.
We could use a regular expression which is probably what I would do.
And I'll show you a solution with that in the next video.
You could also probably do something with the character codes the ASCII codes.
There's a lot of different ways you could do it and all that we would need to do is plug it in to our
existing code.
So if we were checking if it was a valid character I had maybe just add an additional If statement in
ness.
The inside of that if statement.
So all of this logic states we wouldn't be deleting anything.
We are just adding in that one little component.
So to wrap this up you know this isn't a particularly challenging question.
In all honesty but there's still a lot of different approaches that we could take a lot of different
ways of solving it.
And like I said the next solution I'll show you in the next video as well as a couple of refactored
versions vary quite a bit.
But at the end of the day we write what we can write we loop we add things into the object.
We have a couple of conditionals even if it's not perfect we're still 90 something percent of the way
there.
We just need a way to check if something is alphanumeric and in an interview if you can get 90 percent
of the way there and you just have this one little thing that you know you need to complete you tell
the interviewer you know there's three different ways I'm not sure which one is best or I'm not sure
how to do this.
You have any suggestions on what I could do to check if something is alphanumeric that sort of line
of questioning if you get 90 percent of the way there.
It demonstrates a lot about your problem solving ability rather than just fixating on that before you
even begin.
So it's much better to write something out just like rationally put stuff on the page and hope it works.
But get the right pieces in place so that once you figure out the hard part you can just plug it in.